## Teaching data science authentically using open source educational resources

Talk by Tiffany Timbers for JSM 2021 session titled "Developing and Maintaining Open Source Resources for Statistics and Data Science Education".

Data science has embraced open source in a big way. Thus to teach data science authentically, it makes sense to use open source, data science tools to create educational resources. Furthermore, to practice and demonstrate to students how to work and share in the open source ecosystem, it also makes sense to openly share the data science educational resources we create. This follows the old adage, practice what you preach. Furthermore, open educational resources have many additional benefits that extend beyond the field of data science, including cost savings for learners, quick iteration on materials for instructors, and raising the quality of the resources by facilitating collaboration. In this talk, I will discuss open source educational resources for data science that my colleagues and I have created at the University of British Columbia that were also built authentically using open source data science practices and tools. These include: 1) a textbook titled "Data Science: A First Introduction" aimed at first year undergraduates students taking their first course in data science, 2) syllabi, lecture notes, labs and lecture videos from courses for a professional Master's in Data Science program, and 3) interactive online lessons aimed at mid-career learners wishing to transition into data science.
